Update No Vary Search docs for prerender (#37556)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/no-vary-search/index.md

status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.No-Vary-Search
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The HTTP **`No-Vary-Search`** {{Glossary("response header")}} specifies a set of rules that define how a URL's query parameters will affect cache matching.
These rules dictate whether the same URL with different URL parameters should be saved as separate browser cache entries.

This allows the browser to reuse existing resources despite mismatching URL parameters to avoid the expense of fetching the resource again, when the same content will be returned.

> ## Relationship with the Speculation Rules API

Reviewer: It feels like this section should be a bit further down the page, maybe just above the "Examples" section?

In addition, the standard way that we include extra details like this in reference pages is in a "Description" section. So in this case, it would be 

```
## Description

### Relationship with the Speculation Rules API

content...
```

Reviewer: I understand your feelings on this. The intro is supposed to be a very brief description that acts as an introduction, whereas the "Description" sections are supposed to be for any extended description that is deemed necessary. "Relationship with the Speculation Rules API" is definitely part of an extended description.

Normally I don't like having a heading with only one heading below it and no text of its own, but I think it is suitable here.

Author: +1 to avoiding stacked headings as much as possible!! But agree let's go with it here.

> The [Speculation Rules API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Speculation_Rules_API) supports using the `No-Vary-Search` header to reuse an existing prefetched or prerendered page for different URL parameters — if they are included in `No-Vary-Search` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Speculation Rules API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Speculation_Rules_API) supports using the `No-Vary-Search` header to reuse an existing prefetched or prerendered page for different URL parameters — if they are included in the `No-Vary-Search` header.
```

> [!WARNING]

> > Additional care must be take when using prerender with `No-Vary-Search` since the page may initially be prerendered with different URL parameters. `No-Vary-Search` is used for URL parameters that deliver the same resource from the server, but are used by the client for various reasons (client-side rendering, UTM parameters for analytics measurement etc.). As the initial prerender may be for different URL parameters, any code depending on them should only run after prerender activation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Additional care must be taken when using prerender with `No-Vary-Search` since the page may initially be prerendered with different URL parameters. `No-Vary-Search` is used for URL parameters that deliver the same resource from the server, but are used by the client for various reasons (client-side rendering, UTM parameters for analytics measurement, etc.). As the initial prerender may be for different URL parameters, any code depending on them should only run after prerender activation.
```

> The Speculation Rules API can also include an `expects_no_vary_search` field, which indicates to the browser what the expected `No-Vary-Search` value will be (if any) for documents that it is receiving prefetch/prerender requests for via the speculation rules. The browser can use this to determine ahead of time whether it is more useful to wait for an existing prefetch/prerender to finish, or start a new fetch request when the speculation rule is matched. See the ["expects_no_vary_search" example](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/speculationrules#expects_no_vary_search_example) for more explanation of how this can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Speculation Rules API can also include an `expects_no_vary_search` field, which indicates to the browser what the expected `No-Vary-Search` value will be (if any) for documents that it is receiving prefetch/prerender requests for via the speculation rules. The browser can use this to determine ahead of time whether it is more useful to wait for an existing prefetch/prerender to finish, or start a new fetch request when the speculation rule is matched. See the ["expects_no_vary_search" example](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script/type/speculationrules#expects_no_vary_search_example) for an explanation of how this can be used.
```

> <table class="properties">

Reviewer: This table has been moved too far down — this should be just at the bottom of the article intro, before the first H2.

Author: Basically same as below comment so resolving this one to discuss further there.

No-Vary-Search: params=("id" "order" "lang")
```

> [!NOTE]

> > As a [structured field](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8941) the array of parameters should be space separate quoted strings like above, and not comma-seperated as some developers may be more used to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> As a [structured field](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8941) the array of parameters should be space-separated quoted strings as shown above, and not comma-separated, which developers may be more used to.
```
